Presentation or talking to your bos in the elevator, there are five secret to being a confident speaker. First, there's your stance. Second, your sound third smile, fourth silence and fit your site. First, your stance when you're speaking, you need to have a nice firm stance. Your foot should be about hip apart, not too wide and not too close. We want to have our foot firmly planted on the ground, no crossing of the leg, no swaying back and forth no dancing backwards and forward no pacing side and by all mean no popping of the hip. Once we have that firm, stable stance, we need to then stand up nice and tall to have a length in our torso, but our shoulder relaxed to increase the distance between our shoulder and our ear and to imagine the top of our head ha a string going Right to the ceiling making? U stand taller than usual? What do we do with our arm? The question every new speaker ha keep them in a neutral position at your side, don't clasp in front or behind don't do this defensive move and when they're at your side, then you can use them freely to gesture and add impact to your speech. If you're standing behind a lectern be careful not to grasp onto the lectern for dear life, this can cause you to bend over, impacting your posture negatively it'll, prevent you from doing any gesture and you might tap on it or make other distracting noise. So if you do need to use the lectern for your note, make sure that you are not touching it and that you are gesturing. We'Ve talked about your stance now, let's talk about your sound when you are giving a speech that great stance is the basis for phenomenal projection, it will allow you to speak from your diaphragm and fill the room with sound. Make sure that you really lower those shoulder, because when we get nervous which most of u are when we speak, we tend to make those shoulder: go higher and higher and higher towards our ear. Our voice get higher and higher and faster and faster, and it doen't help our presentation relax those shoulder lower that voice and make sure that you speak in a slow, understandable case when we're working with sound, also think about having variation. Add interest to your speech with sound use up high tone in a low tone, speak slow and really really fast yeah. These will add a dynamic nature to your speech, making you look very confident. We talked about stance and your sound. Now we have to talk about your smile. This is an extension of your sound because people who are smiling sound, more pleasant, they're great to listen to you might think that you look cheesy and silly smiling through a speech, but you will not. You will look friendly. You will look confident and you will look at ease a a speaker even if you're really nervous on the inside, no one ha to know put on a big smile. When you give a speech so long a it is appropriate to your topic now into the fourth s, silence. How is silence something that a confident speaker doe in our culture we like to fill every single moment with sound? We don't like to pause between sentence. We add word like, and so the entire speech is one long run. We should prevent that and when we lose our train of thought or need to think of what we want to say next, we often fill that time with um. Ah, like you know, other mouth sound, this doen't make a slip, professional prepared or polished use silence. It is your best friend. Lastly, your sight, what I mean by sight is what about when you're, looking out at the audience, making eye contact is an important part of being a great confident speaker. You need to hold that eye contact. Just like you would, in a one conversation to establish rapport with your audience. You might feel that it's too long five to seven. Second in a speech, but that's exactly what you should do. It will decrease the distance. If you will, between the speaker and audience, make sure that you don't scan back and forth without making any lasting contact on member of your audience also make sure you don't do the hunt and peck. That'S what I call it where you look at two people over and over and ignore the rest of the crowd. Maybe those people are smiling and nodding, but you need to make an effort to establish eye contact with all part of the room by all mean ignore the advice you might have received at some point where someone said if you're nervous, all you need to do is Just stare at the back wall of the room and it'll be the easiest speech you ever gave well. It'Ll also be the worst speech, because no one in your audience will be involved and engaged because you won't be making I contact with him. We have talked about today, the 5 is they are stance, sound, smile, silence and sight. If you apply these principle, you will be a confident speaker. The next time you are giving a formal speech or your elevator speech. Mr. Toastmaster